# Publishing Tools

A suite of shell utilities to help writers publish markdown documents to various formats on GNU/Linux.

Features include:

* Builds markdown documents to HTML5 and PDF (more formats coming soon)
* Support for metadata and CriticMarkup (see Dependencies)
* Merges multiple markdown files into a single document
* User customisable PDF output
* Styling with CSS

## Depedencies
Following is a list of dependencies:

* [MultiMarkdown](https://github.com/fletcher/MultiMarkdown-4)
* [wkhtmltopdf] (http://wkhtmltopdf.org/) with patched QT
* Zenity

## Installation

On Ubuntu and its derivatives the easiest way to install the script/s you want is to copy/move/sym-link it to your /home/*your_user_name*/bin directory. Rename the file to suit your preferences.

Ensure the file is given executable permissions, for example:

    $ chmod +x build_markdown.sh

Then from any folder, call it from the command line:

    $ build_markdown.sh *.md

## GUI integration

The script uses basic forms generated by Zenity to enable the user to add title and provide basic PDF configuration.

So far the interaction is limited to:

* requesting a short-title if none exists in the metadata
* PDF page configuration including:
	* Page size (default is A4)
	* User defined header and footer text

More options will be added in future.

### Nautilus/Caja/Thunar Custom Actions
The scripts work well when called as an Action from Nautilus, Caja or Thunar. Actions are installed by default in Thunar.

To install Actions in Nautilus:

    $ sudo apt-get install nautilus-actions

To install Caja Actions in Ubuntu MATE:

~~Actions are not (yet) in the main repos for Caja, at least for Ubuntu MATE. A binary or source can be found at https://github.com/NiceandGently/caja-actions~~

Preliminary support for Caja Actions in Ubuntu MATE is now provided in the ubuntu-mate-dev/crazy-mate PPA. To install:

```
sudo apt-add-repository ppa:ubuntu-mate-dev/crazy-mate
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
sudo apt-get install caja-actions
```

Instructions on how to use it with a Custom Actions are detailed on my [blog](http://chrisrosser.net/posts/2015-01-10-building-markdown-novels-on-linux.html)
